This is an interview with Robert E. Kirk by George
S. West on April 30, 1989, at Point Blank, Texas,
concerning the Vietnam War. In the interest of
accumulating knowledge about the war, I am going
to donate this tape to the Texas A&M Oral History
Collection and the University Archives. Is that
all right with you? Yes, it is. Let's start with
some background questions first, such as your
date and place of birth. August 30, 1937, in
Rensselaer, Indiana. What kind of education did
you receive before entering the service? I
completed my sophomore year in high school and
then I quit high school and joined the Army. While I
was in the Army, I finished my high school
education in GED while I was in Germany.
What did you do before Vietnam?
Well, that would be a student and then I joined the
Army I guess I'd been in the Army almost 10 years
before I went to Vietnam.
Did you know much about the war before you went to
Vietnam? Just what I read in the newspapers and
while I was in Germany I was in the intelligence
section and we got periodic reports from Vietnam.
But they were classified. Was any training you
received useful? just my basic training.
Why did you enlist in the service?
I guess my basic reason was I just wanted to serve
the country.
When and where did you serve? I think it's pretty
lengthy. I started out for my basic training Fort
Leonard Wood, Missouri in 1954, and I went to
Aberdeen, Maryland, and took my second English,
the basic, which was in the Ordnance Corps, in
ammunition, storage, handling, renovation, and
EOD work. Upon completion of basic training, I
went to Germany, wound up in the Monterey
Battalion as an ammo specialist, And within a
year, I decided to become a mechanic. I went to
mechanic school and continued being a mechanic
for the next four years. Then I got out of the Army
briefly in 1958. Stayed out 11 months. While I was
out, I worked as a mechanic. Then I went back in the
military and into the Military Police Corps. Went
to military police school in Fort Fort Gordon,
Georgia. Upon completion of military police
school, I was reassigned to Korea, the 7th
Infantry Division, and Camp Kaiser. I stayed
there three years, and two and a half years of that
three years, I was a military police
investigator. Upon completion of my Korean tour,
I was reassigned to Fort Chaffee, Arkansas, at the
66th Military Police Company. And through the
course of commotions and whatnot, they had to
change my MLS to infantry. So I was reassigned to a
45th Infantry Battalion in Fort Chappie.
However, we only were activated three months
before they closed Fort Chappie. Then I was
reassigned to Fort Benning to the Ranger
Department as an instructor. Stayed there about
eight months, I believe, and then I was reassigned
back to Germany. Wound up in a tank battalion, the
2nd Battalion, 68th Armored, in Baumholder,
Germany. That was supposed to have been a
three-year tour, but I was curtailed from that
assignment three months early to come back to Fort
Riley, Kansas, to activate the 9th Infantry
Division and go to Vietnam. So approximately
eight or nine months after I was in Fort Plough, we
packed up as an entire division and went to
Vietnam. Took us about 27 days to get there by ship.
And I spent a year in Vietnam, and I came back to the
States, Fort Polk, Louisiana, to training units.
Stayed in the States one year. Back to Vietnam for
another year. Back to Fort Polk
for nearly 18 months, I believe. Then I went back to
Korea again. Stayed in Korea a year again. Back to
the States, to Fort Polk a third time, to 55th and
1st and Old Trent Police Company. Stayed there
until I retired. in August of 1975.
What were, what was your rank and what were your
duties in Vietnam? My first time in Vietnam I was a
sergeant first class, platoon sergeant, and of
course as that rank I was a platoon sergeant. But
after our first engagement with the enemy I became
a platoon leader, and for the next 11 months I
worked as a platoon leader, which is normal rank as
a lieutenant. The second time in Vietnam, I went
over, my rank was first sergeant, but my duty
assignment was sergeant major in the 24th Spatial
Tactical Zone, which is a Vietnamese unit under
MACV.
What was everyday life like? Well, everyday life
was pretty miserable. We were in the boondocks
more than we were anywhere else. And we were always
hot, wet, and muddy. We very rarely saw any dry
land. We were always in the rice paddies. If we saw
one that was dry, we thought we were in heaven.
How did you and your unit try to fight the war? Well,
we tried to fight war as if you're normally
trained. I mean, we know what our function is, and
we go out on our missions. We try to conduct it the
way we knew it was supposed to be conducted.
There were times they sent us out, and they sent us
to a so-called free-fire zone that anything that
moves, you shoot at. And there's other times they
tell you, well, this is a no-fire zone, meaning
that if you receive fire, you can't return fire. To
me, that's not the way to fight a war. And you can't
see the enemy. They see you, and they know the
terrain, and we don't.
I don't think we were allowed to fight the war.
What kind of operations were you involved in? Were
they mainly successes or failures?
Well, that's a difficult question. We were foot
infantry. We didn't have any vehicles. And we were
attached to the Navy and we were rivering force. So
the Navy pretty much took us where we were going and
eventually picked us up and brought us back. But if
we couldn't go by water, we could go by air
helicopter. And if we couldn't go those two ways,
we just walked. We went on all kinds of combat
operations. We searched and destroyed
routine patrol. We were searching out for the
enemy. Maybe we find them, maybe we don't. More
often than not, we didn't. And we'd be used as
blocking forces for another unit that was making a
sweep somewhere. As far as success, I don't know
how you would measure success. When we engage the
enemy, we always seem to inflict more damage to
them than they did us. Those times we could find
evidence after the battle, but more often than
not, after the battle, you search the area, we
couldn't find any of them. We'd find blood, but we
didn't find any bodies for the most part. So, as far
as being successful, I wouldn't really have any
idea.
Are there any specific missions that you remember
that stand out in your mind? Oh yes, there's a
couple that stand out in my mind. I don't remember
the exact dates and some of the places, but there
was in the Canaan area that was pretty well
infested with a combination of VC and VA. Any time
we went up in there, we wound up against the a pretty
large force. Fortunately for us, our force was
always larger than theirs.
We'd take a few cagulets, but like I say, very
rarely did we find the enemy bodies. And then there
were some times we'd go through the rice paddies,
and it may be knee-deep in water, and we'd stumble
sometimes, and all of a sudden some bodies would
float to the top. But we thought most of those were
killed by either artillery fire or B-52 strike
that just happened to fly away. I don't think we, as
such, inflicted the casualties. We just happened
to stumble across them. But then there was one
major battle where we were fighting, I think it was
264th
VC Regiment, and I believe it was in May of 67, where
when we finally swept the area, we found it. And
whatever position they happened to be in when they
crawled in the bunkers, that's how we found them.
But there was also a combination of B-52 Arclight
the night before we went in. The Arclight probably
created the most casualties. But a few weeks later
we captured a courier that had some documents on to
him from the commander of that unit, explaining
that they'd practically been wiped out, that they
didn't even have enough people to think about
reorganizing,
and he needed immediate replacements. Well, that
was approximately May. The following September,
December the 17th, exactly, we were sent on a
mission somewhere in the central delta area we
were going by by boat and we were supposed to go to
this location and find a large cache of enemy
weapons and we were supposed to beach at 7 30 in the
morning and make a sweep approximately 8 000
meters north and we were found However, 7 o'clock
that morning, we ran through an ambush from both
sides of the river. And there was some pretty heavy
fighting on that one. My platoon was the lead boat.
The CO happened to be on the boat with me. And we went
through the ambush site and made it to our beaching
site and went ashore. Though we didn't get more
than 200 yards inside, we couldn't advance any
more. back to both my point and pinned down and
wounded. And the battalion commander was
upstairs in the helicopter and he could see what
was going on. And he told us to get back on our boat
and rejoin the battalion. It seems the rest of the
boats, when we hit that ambush, they backed up and
beached a safe distance from the ambush site. So we
finally got back on our boats Went back through
that ambush again. Didn't take any more
casualties at that time. And we rejoined the
battalion a couple miles upstream and started
evacuating the wounded. That day we had 101
casualties, 99 wounded and two killed. One
soldier and one sailor were killed, and then the
wounded was a combination of both. Each one of our
boats had, I believe it was eight sails on it, and
the rest of us were on it. After we evacuated all our
wounded, we went back through that ambush again.
But this time, we just met sporadic fire in the
ambush site. The enemy had used that time interval
to withdraw somewhat. But it still took us
approximately eight hours to go a couple thousand
meters for the sporadic fire. We never did find a
body. And we did not find a weapons cache. Which
leads me to believe that the information that the
intelligence was working on initially was
planted information that they knew we were
coming. But they ambushed us 30 minutes before we
were to land it. Fortunately for us, our boats were
on the plane.
Then there was another one.
I don't remember if it was October or November 67.
Somewhere in the Delta.
We were already on an operation. We didn't find
anything. And then the CO received a radio
transmission to pack up and move about 10 clicks
off to the west with a separate mission. Well, the
choppers came in and we only had enough choppers to
take two platoons. So the first and third platoon
left and the CO went with them. And before he left,
he told me, well, the choppers will come back and
get us. But if they're not back within 30 minutes
for us to walk over to where they were. so that while
they're gone, I look among them and I pick out a
route to get there the quickest and easiest, just
in case those choppers didn't come back.
The distance from where I was to where the SEAL and
the rest of the company eventually lined up was out
of our radio limitation, so I couldn't hear what
was going on over there. and it but i did find out
over the radio that our choppers was diverted to
another operation so we were about to saddle up and
move out to marry up with the rest of the company
and all of a sudden some more choppers came in from
some place i don't know who they belong to but it was
obvious they were us because they landed and
picked us up and took us
As we're coming in, all hell broke loose, and there
was bullets flying everywhere, and we're still in
the air. And as we're coming down, my lead
helicopter was hit and crashed into the ground.
Intact, fortunately, with everybody on it. I was
in the second chopper. And we dived out of those
helicopters, I happened to land right near the CO,
and he was telling me that he was trying to wave us
off. We were too busy to notice him. Didn't see him
trying to wave us off. We did not know there was a hot
LZ.
And because of all this firing going on, pretty
well occupied, so I didn't really know what was
going on around. And all these helicopters taking
back off,
Out of the clear blue sky come a medivac helicopter
and managed to get all the casualties off that
first helicopter. But I thought, sure, he was
going to crash into the helicopter because all of
them trying to rise and he's down there and then
he's trying to rise and he was losing control. But
he managed to maintain control of that medivac and
got out of there safely. And the SEAL got his tail
member because we hadn't even called in the
medivac. And he got his tail number so we could
eventually find out who he was. And we eventually
got that chopper pilot's distinguished line
across. Well, after the choppers were all gone, of
course, we still got that disabled chopper there.
And the SEAL was explaining to me what we got. Well,
we called in some helicopter gunships, and
eventually the Air Force came in and give us some
supporting fire. And the helicopter pilot was
telling us we were in a horseshoe ambush and told us
the limits of it. And he was telling us about all the
bodies that they could see laying around there.
Now the CO wanted me to send a patrol off to within my
right flank forward, skirting the ambush to see
what we could do about trying to outflank them. So I
sent one of my squads, one of my best squad leaders,
out to plank that ambush and see what we could do,
but they didn't get very far before they told us
that they couldn't go any further. So the SEAL told
me to bring them back. I brought them back. While
all this was going on, there was this huge tree in
front of us, and the SEAL already figured out there
was a machine gun in placement at the base of that
tree that had gotten five men out of the first team.
And I don't know why, but I was looking at the top of
that tree, and I saw two black objects.
But I didn't know what they were. But one of them
appeared to be moving, getting higher. And then he
comes back, a little bit closer to that other one.
And at first I thought it was just my eyes playing
tricks on me, but I was certain that it was moving.
So I asked the CO what to say. He said, look up there
in that tree and tell me if one of those black blobs
isn't moving. And he looked up there and he, by the
way, the owner. So I pointed my rifle up there and I
pulled off around. It was obvious that that M16 was
ineffective. We're up there. too far away, and all
the brush in the tree. So I went over to that downed
helicopter, because I know there's two machine
guns there, and I was debating whether to get in
behind that one machine gun and fire at that thing
in the tree. And I got to think, well, no. The grass
is high enough around here, the other can't see me.
But they could damn sure see that helicopter. And
they knew where those machine guns were on that
chopper. Had to commit suicide to get behind that
gun. But I saw that M14 strapped to the pilot's
seat. It had two magazines in it, taped together.
So I took the M14 out, and it was filthy. I couldn't
get the bolt open. I had to put it on the ground and
open it with my foot. And I went back with the tail
boom of the helicopter, and I laid my rifle over the
tail boom. But that first round wouldn't go off. So
I ejected that, put a second round in the chamber.
And I fired at that blob that I saw moving, but I
missed. So I fired the second round. And all of a
sudden, here comes this bird flying out of the
ground, out of the tree, landing on the ground on
his head. It was an enemy soldier. About that time,
all kinds of bullets started hitting the tail boom
of that helicopter. I decided that's not the place
to be. And as I'm about to move out, I heard somebody
holler. And it was one of our men from the 3rd
platoon. He was a little ways in front of that
helicopter. And I hollered at him to find out where
he was, and he told me he was wounded. So I kind of
crawled over to where he was and helped him back
over to the company headquarters. And then the CO
decided to call artillery in. And he gave the
artillery people their accordance, told them how
far ahead to fire the rounds. And artillery
brought in some smoke. And by the time they
finished, there was no tree standing there. Just a
stump and a bunch of brush around. And it was
getting dark. So we were told we had to stay and
guard that helicopter. So we set up a perimeter
defense. In the process of setting up a perimeter
defense, that's when I realized I only had about
half of my people.
And we started looking around for the other half.
Both my machine gun crews were gone. And because it
was getting dark, I suggested to the CO We don't
search for them anymore. Because everybody will
be scared. And there's no shooter or anything that
moves. So wherever they are, we just leave them
there. And in the morning, we'll go out where
people can see each other and we'll start
searching for them. He agreed with me. But I
assumed they were on the ground somewhere.
The next morning, We start popping our heads up
above the dikes. We're not receiving any fire. So
we assume the enemy had withdrawn. So the SEAL
calls that brigade to get a Chinook to come in and
pull that helicopter out. And we start searching
for my missing troops. And we didn't find
them. So he called base camp. And sure enough, they
were all back at base camp. It seemed that the last
three choppers in my group that brought us in
couldn't get close enough to the ground to
disgorge my troops. And some of them became
casualties, too, while they were still in the air.
So, I don't have any machine guns, and I only have
half my platoon. And we've got to carry on with the
mission. So I went up to that helicopter before the
Chinook got there, and I took the two machine guns
off of it. Unfortunately, the gunners had left the
bipods on them. Half of them take the bipods off.
And when the Chinook came in, I told the crew chief
to let the commander of that helicopter know that I
have the weapons off that chopper. And when we
finish with this mission and get back to base camp,
we'll see if they get the weapons back. But I need
the weapons. So
after they took the Huey off, they wanted a body
count of the enemy's casualties. So we started
searching the area for enemy casualties. Now we
already know what the gunship pilot was telling us
about bodies laying everywhere. And the CO and I
both saw that clown come flying out of that tree.
But of course, he's probably buried underneath
all that bush, and we're not about to pull it up and
look for one stupid body. But in the process of
searching for bodies, we did not find one.
And I think we had nine
or ten killed, and I don't remember how many
wounded.
And we did not find one single body. And Brigade
called the SEAL and wanted a body count. He told me,
he said, I can't find him. He said, you better come
up with a body count. So the SEAL and I, we were
pretty close. And she said, well, what do you
think, Bob? I said, well, those cops were telling
me that the body's all over the place. I think it'd
be safe to say we got 10. We know we lost 10. He said,
that sounds like a good figure. So he told them ten.
And they come on the air and they chewed him out.
With all that ordnance you've expended out there,
you can only come up with ten, you better come up
with a better figure. The SEAL refused to raise the
figure. Well, when they finally wrote up the
operation, they put something like a hundred and a
hundred and some enemy casualties, and we didn't
even find one. I don't believe any figures from
Vietnam are friendly or enemy. In fact, in my
personal opinion, if you tallied up all the
casualties we were supposed to have inflicted on
the enemy in the early 60s, I'd like to know who in
the world we were fighting.
I think we should have wiped out the whole male
population.
And there were several other battles, but they
didn't really amount to nothing.
We got a bunch of unit declarations for our
operations. I think that's so much junk
to sell. Did you see many changes during your tours
regarding the missions? Regarding what missions
you were sent on? The missions you were sent on,
such as more search and destroy? Well, we were sent
on probably more search and destroys than
anything else. Well, there was a couple times we'd
be on search and destroy and we'd find evidence of
enemy activity. Like we'd find some places where
they were scrounging up C-ration cans and there
was all kinds of shrapnel around. It was obvious
that they were making movie traps out of old
C-ration cans. In fact, a couple of my people lost a
foot or something to a sea ration can of peaches.
And when we find stuff like that, we destroyed the
dwelling that all that stuff was in. One time, we
set fire to a couple of haystacks because they were
in our way for
an operation. And it was getting dark. Those
haystacks, they were lighting up the area pretty
well. We could see what was going on out there. But
all of a sudden, there was an explosion. Of course,
that alerted everybody. We started looking at
where the hell that explosion was coming from. And
all of a sudden, two of those haystacks started
blowing up. They kept blowing up all night long.
There was all kinds of ammunition stored in those
haystacks. And then there was some other times
that They sent us on a search and destroy mission,
and they told us to destroy anything we came upon.
And when we come upon them, a series of weapons, we
destroy them. That's what our orders were. And
those orders originally supposedly came from the
Vietnamese government, that anybody in that area
is enemy or enemy sympathizer.
There was one village We'd come in through, not on a
search and destroy operation. We were there to
guard that village so that they could safely vote
without any interference from any enemy
antagonists. And it was daytime, so I gave my
people 75% off and 25% alert. We didn't expect
anything to happen during the daytime. And I was
half asleep, and I heard some yelling. It sounded
like a little kid hollering. So I go to where I hear
the noise coming from, and there's a couple of my
troops standing there, and they've got this
little kid by his feet, upside down, dunking him in
this big old pond. I walk up there, and I make them
stop, and what the hell do you think you're doing?
Then they told me that he stole seven grenades, He
got caught in the act of stealing the last one. Then
I said, well, carry on until we find those
grenades. So eventually, he showed us where the
grenades were stashed. And of course, we kept him
in prison for the remainder of the day and night. We
wanted to turn him over to the White Mice National
Police the next day. And he couldn't have been more
than eight or nine. But they can kill you just as
well as a grown man can. But I had a couple of
engineers, mine sweeping team, that we didn't
need. And I assigned them to keep an eye on this
little kid. I should have assigned one of my own
troops, but I assigned those people. And early in
the morning, that little kid escaped. And I'll
tell you, you never saw anybody run so fast across
those rice paddies. He got away. But he was only
somewhere between seven and nine years old. And we
ran into a couple of females
that just as soon as you shoot you, they look at you.
We wound up having to kill two of them.
We had white mice with us on a couple of operations.
We stumbled over ten enemy that was hidden in a hole
underneath a piece of sheet steel. And they
finally got unnerved, I guess, and took off. And we
caught them. And these white mice, each one on that
Thompson .45 submachine gun, I thought they were
going to blow all of them away. And they had them
laying flat on the ground in the barrel of that
submachine gun, sticking right in its forehead,
jabbering their gibberish. I don't know what all
that enemy crew told him, but I mean to tell you, he
was doing some talking. Probably told them a lot
more than what they really asked for. And I
expected them to blow them away anyhow. To my
knowledge, they evacuated the rear after that. I
don't know what happened
to them. Did you notice any changes of troop
morale? No. My first time over there, we had pretty
good morale although there was times we wondered
what in the world we're doing here i mean they send
us out and won't let us do anything or well we go out
there and we walk and walk and walk and walk and jump
to see a cotton picking vine and
it got kind of frustrating we thought we were there
to fight a war but we didn't really have that much
actual combat going on. We'd be out there maybe two
weeks and not see or hear a cotton picket sign. Then
another time he'd go out and all hell breaks loose.
But for the most part, our troops' morale was good.
And my second time, my participation was not so
much involved in combat as it was in combat
support. We were the MACV and we had so many
subordinate units assigned to us I just went from
unit to unit checking on their condition and their
morale and whatnot. The second time I had one
sergeant first class, he was an advisor to the 42nd
Arvin Regiment.
That particular regiment was one of the sorriest
that I'd ever known about. I mean, they'd walk 30
miles to avoid engaging with the enemy. Sergeant
Wall was sped up with it and wanted out. He didn't
want to go back to an American unit or someplace,
but he wanted out of that unit. And the lieutenant
colonel, who was his team commander, didn't
appreciate that and wanted to reduce him for
insubordination. So my duty position is sergeant
major, and I'm responsible to all who are enlisted
personnel. So I had Sergeant Wall report to us, and
I talked to him for a couple hours, and he explained
to me his situation.
And I agreed with him wholeheartedly. So I got with
Colonel Miller, who was our zone commander, the
position was that of a brigadier general, and I
suggested that we pull Sergeant Wall out of the
team and reassign him to 2 Corps somewhere in the
G-3 section, G-2 or G-3 section, that he'd be more
beneficial back there. He will be totally
ineffective in the 42nd Regiment because he has no
respect for them. I have no respect for them. You
have no respect for them. We'll send a new NCO up
there. And he agreed with me, so Sergeant Waller
was reassigned to 2 Corps Headquarters for
General Timothy. and we put another unit another
sergeant in the 42nd regiment but
our opinion of the urban troops is they didn't want
to fight any more than anybody else did for example
we we knew the tunarong valley was infested with
the nba and we kept trying to get the vietnamese
commander to commit operations to the Tumarong
Valley to engage in an attempt to destroy the
enemy. And they kept coming up with other ideas and
whatnot. They didn't want to go to the Tumarong
Valley.
And I don't remember the dates, but I remember
Colonel Miller had 45 days left in the country. And
we finally got him to go en masse to the Tumarong
Valley. We took them in by helicopter, dropped
them on this mountaintop, and they put up wire and
everything. They were running patrols off this
mountaintop.
After the third day, they came under a heavy
attack. And the enemy got all the way up to the wire,
got hung up in the wire. And they even had some
hand-to-hand fighting.
So the next day, The Vietnamese colonel and his
entourage, he never went anywhere without half a
dozen people with him. Bodyguard and half his
staff. My colonel and me, we get on a Huey and we go to
the mountain top to see what's going on and get some
kind of command structure. We land and we can see
the enemy laying all over the place. But the Arbors
did take a heavy toll of casualties on their own.
And the Vietnamese colonel decided he had to
withdraw his troops. So we started calling the
Hueys in to withdraw the Arbors. Well, as the Hueys
were coming in, they'd come under intense fire
again. abandoned the use of Hueys and went to
Chinooks. But if they lose a helicopter, it's best
to lose one Chinook rather than a couple of Hueys.
Even though we've got a greater amount of Cagulis,
they switch from Hueys to Chinooks. But in the
process, they had this prisoner who convinced the
Arvin commander that he was going to show them
where the the command base was for the enemy
troops. Well, our chopper was already overloaded
because of this entourage that we had to meet the
colonel. So my colonel told me to stay on the
mountain until they come back. And they put that
prisoner in that place.
That helicopter didn't get 500 yards from that
mountaintop when it was shot down. Of course,
everybody on it was killed.
And so I got on another helicopter and went out with
them to come back to base. But here we got, it took us
all that time to get those Vietnamese into that
area, knowing that the enemy is there. We're
soldiers. Our sole function on Earth is to fight
when the time comes. But when the time came, they
wanted to get the hell out. To me, that's
cowardice. And I have no respect for the
Vietnamese military from the command structure
on down, beginning with the command structure. In
fact, one time, my first time, we were on a patrol
operation, and then I got a call from my CO. He was
still back in base camp. It was just my platoon out
there in the boondocks. And he told me to switch
radio frequencies and report to Brigade
headquarters. I was going to be under their
command for a while. So I switched frequencies and
contacted Brigade and they gave me a destination
somewhere to the north of us. And it was a village, a
small village. And he told me to go up to that
village and there would be an American colonel
that I was to report to and he would give me my
instructions. So, and I was to stay with them until
that colonel released me, and then I'd come back to
base camp. So we go up there. It took us something
like seven hours to get there. And I report to that
colonel, and it was getting dark by the time we got
there. And the colonel had told me that we were to
augment a police unit to protect this village.
that the night before they came under attack and
half the police deserted. So he introduces me to
this commander in this police unit, and this
commander told me where to set up my troops. And
boy, they put us in the sorriest position they
could think of, where his troops was out here where
they could see, mine was out here in the, well, it's
not a jungle, but it's, a wooded area, and you
couldn't see your hands in front of your face at
night. And I was supposed to give him any support
that he requested. Well, he passed word over to me
that he wanted me to have an artillery fire, H&I,
harassing and introductory fire, all night. And
he kept wanting the illumination ramp. But he
wanted the illumination rounds out there in the
front where his troops could see out in these open
rice paddies where he could see anyhow. But he
didn't know where my troops were so they could see.
Well, I didn't like the idea of firing all this
stuff all night long. I mean, that's just a waste of
ammunition. So every now and then I'd have a firing
illumination round. And every now and then an H-9.
But not all night. But I'd already known that half
of them deserted the night before. So that kind of
had me worried. They're supposed to be behind us.
We're making a big circle around this village. I
didn't sleep at all that night. I just kept walking
the line. I wanted to know if they were still back
there. And then I found out that that commander had
gotten in his vehicle and gone to the village of
Mito.
And that the night of the battle, he'd also been a
meantime. So he was not there when his troops came
under fire. That's probably why they deserted.
And there's another reason why I couldn't trust
the Vietnamese. You don't know if they're going to
be there or where their commander's going to be.
That's just two different instances that I know
firsthand. I've heard about a lot of other things.
You can't talk about something second-hand. You
have to know first-hand knowledge.
What did you think about the Vietnamese people?
Was there much contact? Well, the Vietnamese
people were a few that I had direct contact with.
The first time in particular, we run into some
civilians. But every time we run into any
civilians, it was old folks. where they appear to
be at. They age pretty quickly. They might look
like they're 90 years old and want to be 30. But the
ones we'd come in contact with out at Loon Docks was
old women and young kids.
The men, they were either drafted in the Army or the
Viet Cong was drafted. The only time we'd ever run
into a male Because he was either ancient or very,
very young. If we come into a village and there was a
mid-aged young man, we'd have to be very
suspicious of him. Because he would probably be a
VC, or he's a deserter from the Oregon Army.
If he's in his teens or twenties.
For the most part, we'd come into these little
villages, and they'd only be, sometimes it'd be
one hooch. There might be a cluster of six or seven
hoochies. Inevitably, the little kids would come
up to us and mostly ask them for Salem cigarettes.
Always Salem. And old Mama Son would come out and
fix up a pot of tea. And all this tea. And flattened
out bananas. In fact, I ate a banana for a year and
didn't know I was eating a banana. But they were
friendly to us. But I think they were mostly
friendly to us because they were afraid of us. The
VC would tell them one thing and we'd try to tell
them another thing. They were totally confused.
They could care less if we were there or not. They'd
rather we weren't.